# 1 Sprites
## 1.1 ball

- non-rotating, roundish things
- 100 pixels diameter
- Single frame

## 1.2 rocket

- non-rotating, smaller, roundish things
- 20 pixels diameter
- Will probably have a particle-based tail generated by the game
- Single frame

## 1.3 explosion

- fireball-style explosion is fine
- 140 pixels wide
- 2-3 frame animation

## 1.4 player

Space commando type of character.

Player can aim in any direction (mouse) and be running left or right (keyboard). Same mechanic as the old side scroller [Abuse](http://youtu.be/KeLdGtyuZ14).

I'm not quite sure of the "rocket launcher" size. If the end of the barrel sticks out too much it may cause issues with the game. So a weapon that is a little on the short side is okay. It doesn't even have to look like a true rocket launcher, can really be any projectile firing weapon.

- player sprite size: 192x192
- made up of two actual sprites: torso and legs

### 1.4.1 torso

Although player can aim 360 degrees there will only be sprites for certain intervals along the circle. Invisible circle around the player is sliced up like a pie. When mouse is in a given slice, that slice's torso sprite is shown.

16 slices, 22.5 degrees per slice. So 16 torso sprites per hip direction means 32 total.

First slice always faces up. For example, if we only had 4 slices the circle would be cut like &times; not like +. This is so the player can shoot straight up and it looks normal.

#### hips facing left

- aiming at any of 16 slices

#### hips facing right

- aiming at any of 16 slices

#### Slice boundaries (16 slices, 22.5 degrees per slice)

Assuming 0 degrees is straight up, 90 degrees is right, 180 is down, 270 is left.

- 11.25 (this is right boundary of up-facing slice)
- 33.75
- 56.25
- 78.75
- 101.25
- 123.75
- 146.25
- 168.75
- 191.25
- 213.75
- 236.25
- 258.75
- 281.25
- 303.75
- 326.25
- 348.75 (this is left boundary of up-facing slice)

### 1.4.2 legs

Player runs at 400 pixels per second.

- running left (animation)
- running right (animation)
- standing facing left (single frame)
- standing facing right (single frame)

# 2. Background

Some kind of training room. Maybe similar to [x-men danger room](https://c2.staticflickr.com/4/3623/3658562333_7dc8496ac7_z.jpg).

- 64x64 tiles
- Game size is 1026x768 so that'd be 16 tiles wide, 12 high
- maybe this can be one big pre-rendered background

# 3. Buttons

- "start game" button
- "help" button
- "back" button (to leave help screen)

# 4. Logo

Something for title screen

# 5. Lettering

- a-z
- A-Z
- 0-9